doc(user): pattern for single parsing (#15604)
MaterializeInc/materialize: doc/user/content/sql/patterns/single-parsing.md

---

> title: "Single parsing"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "JSON parsing"
```

> description: "Parse a source once and save resources."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "How to use materialized views to parse a JSON-formatted source once, making it reusable across clusters and saving resources."
```

aliases:

>   - /guides/single-parsing/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - /guides/json-parsing/
```

menu:
  main:
    parent: 'sql-patterns'
---

<!-- Use a single materialized view to parse a Kafka/Redpanda source **only once** and save resources. -->

> Avoid parsing **more than once** a Kafka/Redpanda source. Using a single materialized view for parsing leads you to multiple benefits:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avoid parsing a Kafka/Redpanda source **more than once** . Using a single materialized view for parsing has multiple benefits:
```

* Faster and reusable access to data

> * Lesser resources processing data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Less resources processing data
```

> Avoid parsing a Kafka/Redpanda source **more than once** . Using a single materialized view for parsing has multiple benefits:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avoid parsing a Kafka/Redpanda source **more than once**. Using a single materialized view for parsing has multiple benefits:
```

* Cleaner code

## Details

Materialized views process data and store the results in durable storage. Re-doing the parsing step, as a subquery, on every view consuming from a source will multiply the processing effort.

> #### Multi-parsing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Multi-parsing
```

The following scenario reflects how two different materialized views increase the processing **overhead** by doing the same parsing step in the subqueries:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW paid_customers AS
SELECT ...
FROM (
    -- Parse
    SELECT CONVERT_FROM(data, 'utf8')::jsonb AS data
    FROM kafka_source
)
WHERE type = 'paid';

CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW free_customers AS
SELECT ...
FROM (
    -- Parse
    SELECT CONVERT_FROM(data, 'utf8')::jsonb AS data
    FROM kafka_source
)
WHERE type = 'free';
```

> #### Single-parsing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Single-parsing
```
